# horde-deployment
A composer deployed horde suite

AI autogenerated may 17th 2025

Versions:

- FRAMEWORK_6_0 A Horde Base with versioned/tagged releases to the FRAMEWORK_6 branch (currently alpha)
- FRAMEWORK_6_0_GROUPWARE A setup with with versioned/tagged releases. (currently alpha) Contains ansel (photo), content (tagger), imp (webmail), ingo (mail filters), kronolith (calendar), mnemo (notes), nag (tasks), passwd (password changing), timeobjects (misc data sources), turba (contacts)

## Directory Structure

- web/ dir contains web readable content, installed horde apps, javascript and themes
  - web/js contains links to all javascript exposed by horde-library or horde-application type composer packages
  - web/themes contains links to installed themes. Do NOT put them in web/horde/themes as they would get deleted on upgrade
  - web/horde/static contains autogenerated, web-readable content like cached css. It will be lost on composer upgrades
- vendor/ dir is managed by composer. It will contain libraries and tools
- presets/ dir contains configs to kickstart your horde apps right on installation or update. These files will be copied into the var/config/$app folder but changes there will not be copied back.
  Warning: At the current state of the composer2 installer, you will lose your web/$app/config files on install or upgrade
- var/ contains some default locations for variable data which you might want to backup
  - var/config/ contains persistent configuration set by the administrator or automated tools. These will be symlinked into the traditional web/$app/config/ location. Any custom files or modifications directly stored in web/$app/config are lost on package upgrades.
  - var/cache/ for any filesystem based cache files
  - var/log/ default location for any logs you might configure (horde log, sync logs, ...)
  - var/sessions/ default location to store session data (you should rather use either PHP's builtin or a DHT)
  - var/vfs/$app default location for any VFS data in case you use the filesystem driver


## usage

```
git clone https://github.com/maintaina-com/horde-deployment.git horde
cd horde
composer install
```
Then copy the main horde config file to
point your web server root to the web/ subdir

For CI/CD scenarios, best fork and customize your deployment

## Customization

### Adding official horde apps

Install applications by requiring them on the commandline in the deployment dir

The example installs the ansel foto app

```
composer require horde/ansel
```

or edit the composer.json of the deployment and run

```
composer update
```

Then go to horde admin screen and create the conf.php or provide a pre-made conf.php

Finally create the db schema by either using the UI button or run

```
$deployment/web/horde/bin/horde-db-migrate ansel up
```

The installer will automatically add a horde.local.php to the
app's config dir and a registry snippet to make horde find the app.

### Adding custom apps

Adding custom apps is similar to official apps.
Unless the app is available on packagist, however, you need to add the app's
repository. Then you can require it like an official horde app

For a custom app "lunch" hosted on a company's internal gitlab installation, this would be

```
composer config repositories.lunch vcs https://git.mysite.com/development/lunch.git
composer require horde/lunch
Using version dev-master for horde/lunch
./composer.json has been updated
Loading composer repositories with package information
Updating dependencies (including require-dev)
Package operations: 1 install, 0 updates, 0 removals
  - Installing horde/lunch (dev-master d4e8bbd): Cloning d4e8bbdf0a from cache
horde/lunch suggests installing horde/activesync (^2.4)
horde/lunch suggests installing horde/backup (^1)
horde/lunch suggests installing horde/test (^2)
Writing lock file
Generating autoload files

```

Custom apps may need to be registered with your horde base.
To achieve this, either put a snippet into registry.d manually or add it to 
your app's doc/registry.d/ path to have the installer automatically copy it
into your horde/config/registry.d

An app must have at least name key, may provide an API or
define its menu location.

See horde wiki for further details.

Example snippet:
```
lunch> cat doc/registry.d/app-lunch.php
<?php
$this->applications['lunch']['name'] = _('Lunch');
$this->applications['lunch']['provides'] = 'lunch';

```

The installer will automatically add a horde.local.php to the
app's config dir and a registry snippet to make horde find the app.


### pre-made configs

You can provide pre-made configuration for your apps to be pulled into your
deployment upon install/update.

Create a presets/app dir and put files there like prefs.local.php
or a ready to run conf.php for your scenario.

Existing configs will not be overwritten.

Example: Deploy with a premade backends file for passwd app:

```
presets/passwd/backends.local.php
```

# Horde/Form Library

## Overview
Horde/Form is a powerful and flexible form handling library that provides a comprehensive set of tools for creating, validating, and processing web forms in PHP applications. It's part of the Horde Application Framework and offers a robust solution for form management with extensive field types and validation capabilities.

## Features

### Form Field Types
The library supports a wide variety of form field types including:

- Basic Input Types:
  - Text fields
  - Password fields
  - Number fields
  - Email fields
  - Phone numbers
  - IP addresses (IPv4 and IPv6)
  - Long text areas
  - File uploads
  - Image uploads

- Selection Types:
  - Dropdown menus (enum)
  - Radio buttons
  - Checkboxes
  - Multi-select lists
  - Matrix inputs
  - Category selectors

- Date and Time:
  - Date pickers
  - Time selectors
  - DateTime combinations
  - Month/Year selectors

- Special Types:
  - Color pickers
  - Sound selectors
  - Credit card validators
  - CAPTCHA support
  - PGP/SMIME input
  - Address fields
  - Country selectors

### Key Features

1. **Validation System**
   - Built-in validation for all field types
   - Custom validation support
   - File upload validation
   - Image processing capabilities

2. **Security**
   - CSRF protection
   - File upload security
   - Input sanitization
   - Password confirmation support

3. **Flexibility**
   - Custom field type creation
   - Extensible validation rules
   - Configurable field properties
   - Support for multiple languages

4. **Integration**
   - Seamless integration with Horde Framework
   - Support for various storage backends
   - Database lookup capabilities
   - File system integration

## Usage

```php
// Example of creating a form
$form = new Horde_Form($vars);
$form->addVariable('Username', 'username', 'text', true);
$form->addVariable('Email', 'email', 'email', true);
$form->addVariable('Password', 'password', 'password', true);

// Validate form
if ($form->validate($vars)) {
    // Process form data
}
```

## Requirements

- PHP 7.0 or higher
- Horde Framework dependencies
- Required PHP extensions (varies by field type)

## Installation

```bash
composer require horde/form
```

## Documentation

For detailed documentation, please refer to the Horde documentation at:
https://www.horde.org/libraries/Horde_Form

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This library is licensed under the Apache License 2.0. See the LICENSE file for details.

## Support

For support, please use the Horde mailing lists or issue tracker:
- Mailing List: https://www.horde.org/mail/
- Issue Tracker: https://bugs.horde.org/

